Networks:
      Vulnerability- weakness
      Tools:
         CyberSecurity tools:
                  hashcat- password cracking tools.
                  BruteForce
                 RAT-Remote Access Troger
cybersecurity:
    data
    resource
    safeguarding:
        Physical control
        Administration control
        Logical control
Port Scanning
protocol-set of rules
tcp and udp - connects the hardware and software and transfer the data
tcp consists of 65535 ports 
udp consists of 65535 ports

Hashcat - This tool helps to cracking passwords or their hashes.

Brute force - attackers using excessively forceful attempts to gain access to user accounts. 

RAT (Remote Access Trojon) is malware an attacker uses to gain full administrative privileges and remote control of a target computer.

Cybersecurity - secure the files, secure the resources, safeguard.

Controls: 

Physical controls
Adminstrative controls
Logical Controls

Port - A port is a virtual point where network connections start and end. 

Port Scanning -  a common technique hackers use to discover open doors or weak points in a network. 

Protocols - Set of rules.

TCP 65535 ports + UDP 65535 ports - Each ports are entry gates of the every device.

https - 443 tcp port
http - 80 port (not secure)

Blockchain Security

Exploit

Sql Injection

Session Hyjacking

Phishing

Trojon  Horse

DNS

Ip address

Cloud

Cryptography

ARP poisoning

Scoofing

Hashing

Encryption

Meta Sploit

Back Door

Hacking - usually to gain unauthorized access to personal or organizational data.

Ethical Hacking - Gaining unauthorized access with written concern.


Web site
Web page
Web application
Web server

Two carrer opportunity
Affensive
Defensive: SOC (Security Operation Center) analyst

red team - Affensive
blue team - Defensive
Purple team - Both Affensive and Defensive

Types of hackers

white hat - Software Architecture (blueprint of entire software) will be completely known to the attacker.
black hat - Hackers not Ethical Hackers. 0 knowledge about the software trying to attack.
grey hat - Kind of both Ethical hackers and Hackers.

Ping

script kiddies - watch tutorial and do wihtout any knowledge to run the code.

Hacktivism - Hack for socail cause.

State hackers - Government sponsered hackers.

**What is CIA?
Confidentality Integrity Availability

Authentication - verify the identity of the user or person.

Authorization or Access Control - permission for access.

to verify someone identification 3 factors
- something you know
- something you have
- something you are

SSl - Secured Scoket Layer

Threarts - Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operation.

Breach - The loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquistion, or any similiar occurence where: a person other than ....

Event - Any observable occurence in a network or system.

Exploit - A particular attack, It is named this way because these attacks exploit system vulnerabilities

Incident - Affect CIA is known as incident.

Intrusion - 

Vulnerability - Weakness in an information system. Internal commands or implemented that could be exploited by a threat source.

Zero Day - A previously unknown system vulnerability with the potential of 

What is network?
    A network consists of two or more computers that are linked in order to share resources (such as printers and CDs), exchange files, or allow electronic communications. 
The computers on a network may be linked through cables, telephone lines, radio waves, satellites, or infrared light beams.

Network vulnerability:
    Network vulnerability is the weakness of the network.

DHCP:
 - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a client/server protocol that automatically provides an Internet Protocol (IP) host with its IP address and other related configuration information such as the subnet mask and default gateway.

DNS:
 - DNS, or the Domain Name System, translates human readable domain names (for example, www.amazon.com) to machine readable IP addresses (for example, 192.0.2.44).
http- work in 80(it is not safe)
https - work in 443(SSL)(it is safe)
block chain
difference b/w http and https
exploit
sql injection
session hijacking
DNS 
IP address
cloud
cryptography
ARP Poisioning(Address Resolution Protocol)
spoofing
hashing
metasploid
backdoor
hacking- gaining unauthorized access.
ethical hacking-gaining unauthorized access with written permission.
web application peneteration- web page hacking
webpage, website, web application, web server
web application- interaction with user
carrier opportunities:
    (red team) offensive(attackers)
     (blue team)defensive(soc analyst)
     (purple team)- offensive and defensive
three types of hacker:
       White hat- software architecture known by attackers
       black hat- they are hackers
       gray hat- combination of white and black hat
       Script Kiddies- use the data available in internet and done it without knowing about it.
       HACKTIVIST-hacking for social causes
       state sponsered hackers- government sponsered hackers.
  BYOD-Bring Your Own Device
CIA traid:
  C-Confidentiality
  I-Integrity
  A-Availability
Authentication- to verify the identity of the people 
Authorization or Access Control- to get permission to use it.
Authentication is done by three ways:
                 something you know(knowledege factor)
                 something you have(using id cards)
                 something you are(based on characters)
above three if we use any two for authentication, then it is two factor
above three if we use all three  for authentication, then it is multi factorfd
UAC(User Access Control)-pop up message when we install software
conversion of clear text to sipher text(human un understandable form)is called encryption
Loss of control - (breach)
even - observable occurance in a network or system
exploit - A particular attack. 
incident -  the affect of CIA 
Intrusion - A security event
Threat - Potiential to damage
liklywood - occurance
Risk - Threat + vulnearablitiy
TOE - Target of Evoluation
CIDR - Classless Inter Domain Rotation
Ipv4
192.168.1.1/24 -     TOE -32bit - 0-9
Ipv6
128bit-Hex-0-9
LAN - It is connected with the one Subnet.
WAN - It is connected with more than one Subnet.
On windows path - ping 172.1.44.44
On Linux path - ping 172.1.44.44 -c 4
The option which have all the command
Same network device to be get connection - Crossover
Different device to be get connected - straight through
Two router to be get connected - SerialDTE coaxial cable



risk matrix
      impact and likelyhood

policy  -- governing the process
procedure  -- step by step process to maintain policy
standard  -- rules from subtree 
regulation  -- rules from government
